---
title: Interject Documentation > ReportVariable()
layout: custom
---
* * *

  

  

##  Function Summary

Directs a list of data into rows that include multiple ranges or sections
where each can be subtotaled and formatted to make a financial statement or
other report with sub groupings.

###  Function Arguments  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<th>

Parameter Name

</th>  
<th>

Description

</th>  
<th>

Default

</th>  
<th>

Optional

</th> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

DataPortal

</td>  
<td>

This is the name of the INTERJECT Data Portal which has been set up to connect
to data.  
</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

NO

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

RowDef  Range

</td>  
<td>

Select a single column range that has the values referencing the RowDefName
field of the data result. Each RowDefName defines a new target range where
records matching the value found in the RowDefName will be inserted. It is not
required for a returned data set to have a column called **RowDefName** .
RowDefRange can look for a different column name if specified in the
ColDefRange cell (explained below), which is directly above the RowDefRange
column.

Explain the **[leftover]** rowdefrange special tag that marks the target range
will all records not matching will be presented.

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

NO

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

ColDefRange  
</td>  
<td>

The Column Definition Range defining which columns from the database will be
used by this function. Unlike the [ ReportRange ](/wIndex/61702199.html)
function, ColDefRange in ReportFixed can only span a single row.

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

FormatRange  
</td>  
<td>

This Range defines the format (eg. font / color) or formula to be copied down
to the TargetDataRange. If left blank, the first row of the TargetDataRange
format is applied. When a ColDefRange spans multiple rows, a FormatRange must
be used and must match the number of rows selected in the ColDefRange.  
</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

Parameters  
</td>  
<td>

Select cells which will be used as parameters for the Data Portal. The
parameters must be selected in the same order specified in the Data Portal
setup. The order can be checked by using the validation report . A [ report
builder ](/wPortal/INTERJECT-Ribbon-Menu-Items_83689479.html) will also list
the parameters correctly to aid new report building. The cells must use
INTERJECT's [ Param ](/wIndex/81756199.html) () function .  
</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

UseEntireRow  
</td>  
<td>

If True, INTERJECT will insert a row instead of a range in order to control
displace of cells.  
</td>  
<td>

FALSE

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

RetainRowColumns

</td>  
<td>

This can either be a string noting the names of the columns in the ColDefRange
or a range that points to the ColDefRange items. The noted columns will be
considered the key for the inserted row. When using this feature, rows are no
longer cleared from the target range, but data are cleared still without
deleting rows. The columns noted as **retained** are not cleared, while all
other ColDef item columns are cleared. The purpose of this feature is to allow
number trends to lead into forecasting calculations. On a data re-pull, it is
critical the calculation formulas are not removed, but only data that is shown
in the trend columns are updated.  [ See example here.
](/wGetStarted/Creating-a-Simple-Report_128408585.html)

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

InsertNewRowsWithin

</td>  
<td>

If RetainRowColumns are specified, the system will automatically add new rows
when the key (represented by the noted columns in RetainRowColumns) is not
present in the target data range. These new rows will be added to the bottom
of the data range to ensure users' calculated formulas are minimally affected.
If InsertNewRowsWithin is true, the new rows will be inserted within the
target range based on the alphabetical order of the key. At this time, the
ability to further refine the order is not allowed.

</td>  
<td>

FALSE

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

UseTopSpacerRow

</td>  
<td>

For the TargetDataRange, adding a top spacer row inserts the data on the
second row of the range and allows the first row to retain it's formatting.
This is used in cases where rows are inserted into the range and the user
needs to place the row at the top of the target range.

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr> </table>

###  Function Composition

    
    
    =ReportVariable(
    				DataPortal
    				,RowDefRange
    				,ColDefRange
    				,FormatRange
    				,Parameters
    				,UseEntireRow
    				,PutFieldNamesAtTop
    				,RetainRowColumns
    				,InsertNewRowsWithin
    				,UseTopSpacerRow
    )

  

###  Function Example  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<th>

From File

</th>  
<th>

Worksheet

</th> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

INTERJECTBasic

</td>  
<td>

ReportVariable

</td> </tr> </table>

