---
title: Interject Documentation > jDataPortal()
layout: custom
---
* * *

  

##  Function Summary

jDataPortal() function is a helpful function for developers to further
leverage DataPortals. It can reduce the number of data connections used by
INTERJECT in a report, speeding the report process and conserving server
resources. It allows DataPortals to be re-used in the same report pull event,
so multiple report functions can access the data in memory and place specific
data in the tab using different methods. jDataPortal() can also be used to
adjust the sort order and filter the data in memory before the it is
presented. jDataportal can only be used inside of a report formula as a helper
function. It can only be used in a [ ReportRange() ](/wIndex/61702199.html) ,
[ ReportVariable() ](/wIndex/61702201.html) , or a [ ReportFixed()
](/wIndex/61702203.html) .

For users with the [ ClientAdmin ](/wPortal/INTERJECT-Roles_324468787.html)
user role, jDataPortal() can also be used to redirect the connection, stored
procedure, or API during testing.

###  Function Arguments  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<th>

Parameter Name

</th>  
<th>

Description

</th>  
<th>

Default

</th>  
<th>

Optional

</th> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

DataPortalName

</td>  
<td>

The name of the INTERJECT DataPortal set up to connect with data.  
</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

NO

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

DataResultNumber

</td>  
<td>

This controls the data set from a stored procedure that is returned based on
the order of the data sets in the SQL stored procedure.

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

Filter  
</td>  
<td>

Filter using syntax that would normally follow a WHERE statement in SQL. For
example, if only filtering accounts that start with 5, see the below example.
This assumes a column named Account is present in the DataPortal. OR and AND
can be used, as well as other advanced filter syntax available in SQL.

    
    
    [Account] Like '5%'

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

OrderBy  
</td>  
<td>

A sort can be added using syntax that would normally follow an "Order By"
statement in SQL. For example:

    
    
    CompanyName Desc

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

CommandOverride  
</td>  
<td>

Directs the data call to a different Stored Procedure or API command. This is
used only for testing and can only be done by ClientAdmin or Editor roles.

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

ConnectionOverride  
</td>  
<td>

Changes the Data Connection name used for testing. Only available for
ClientAdmin or [ Editor ](/wPortal/INTERJECT-Roles_324468787.html) roles.

</td>  
<td>

  

</td>  
<td>

YES

</td> </tr> </table>

  

###  Function Composition  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<th>

Formula

</th>  
<th>

Example

</th>  
<th>

Explanation

</th> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

=  ReportRange  (

DataPortalName

,DataResultNumber

,Filter

,  OrderBy

,  MethodOverride

,  ConnectionOverride

)

</td>  
<td>

=ReportRange(

**jDataPortal** (

**"NorthwindCustomers"**

,  **"1"**

,  **"CompanyName like 'A%'"**

**,"ContactName"**

**,**

)

</td>  
<td>

  

← A DataPortal configured to connect to a Northwind demo database.

← The name of the data portal used.

← The result set to retrieve for the report.

← A custom WHERE statement that applies a filter over the final results

← A custom Order By statement that will order the results by Contact Name
Ascending.

  

</td> </tr> </table>

###  Example from:  
  
<table>  
<tr>  
<th>

From File

</th>  
<th>

Worksheet

</th> </tr>  
<tr>  
<td>

InterjectBasic  
</td>  
<td>

jDataPortalAndMultipleData

</td> </tr> </table>

  

  

