---
title: Interject Documentation > What Does INTERJECT Do?
layout: custom
---
* * *

  


  


##  In a Nutshell 

INTERJECT  is a new method for connecting users to their data. It is a lightweight, enterprise-scalable platform bringing data to spreadsheets which can be used like customizable web applications. ** ** INTERJECT  goes beyond reporting and business intelligence by empowering users to automate unique business processes and reach deeper into their data. Check out [ Real World Use Cases ](/wAbout/Real-World-Use-Cases_61702417.html) to see how accounting, finance, and IT departments benefit. 

IT departments like  INTERJECT  because it allows them to publish only data, helping spreadsheet users create the user-specific reports they need. The familiar spreadsheet interface drastically reduces support and report requests. And since  Interject  is client/server-based, users save fewer spreadsheets to local network drives. 

INTERJECT  provides a central report library capable of managing version control and documentation, making report distribution easy for large organizations. 

##  INTERJECT  is... 

  * A fast, familiar, user controlled reporting solution 
  * A central location for easy access to corporate report templates 
  * A rapid platform for internal point solution development 
  * An ideal platform to integrate multiple systems using internal resources 
  * A secure solution for financial consolidations scalable to thousands of users 
  * A collaborative, interactive budgeting and projection tool 
  * A comprehensive financial close management solution 



A variety of Excel based data reporting products exist, but none change the landscape of opportunity like  INTERJECT  . 

  


  


  


  


  

